Docs for Network migrations and Statesync (#102)
kwilteam/docs: docs/node/network-migration.mdx

### Run Genesis Nodes

#### Install Kwild Binaries

Firstly, install the new version of the `kwild` binaries. Refer to the [Installation](/docs//ref/installation) documentation for more details on getting the required versions of the `kwild` binaries.

#### Download Genesis State

Download the `snapshot` and the `genesis.json` files required for this new network. 

#### Configure Node to Use Snapshot

Refer to the [Node Configuration](/docs//ref/configuration) documentation to configure the `config.toml` file.

To initialize the node with the snapshot data, the `snapshot_file` path in the `config.toml` file must be set to the location of the downloaded snapshot file.  The node will fail to start, if the `snapshot_file` path is not provided in the `config.toml`.

#### Start the Node

> Once the genesis and config files are configured to use snapshots as described in the previous section, start the node using the following command:

Reviewer: brevity:

```suggestion
Once the genesis and config files are configured to use snapshots, start the node using the following command:
```

```bash
# use -h for more options. 
kwild -r /path/to/node/root/dir
```

### Nodes Catching Up

> Follow the same steps described in the [Run Genesis Nodes](#run-genesis-nodes) section to configure and start the nodes joining the upgraded network. Nodes can either sync with the network using `statesync` or `blocksync`.

Reviewer: Are there any other sections of the docs you can hyperlink to that explain `statesync` and `blocksync`.

> If the node uses `blocksync`, the `snapshot_file` path is mandatory to ensure that the node initializes with the same genesis initial state and replay all the historical blocks of the chain to catchup with the network without forking itself off the chain. 

Reviewer: This is a bit of a run on sentence. Do the changes below work:

```suggestion
If the node uses `blocksync`, the `snapshot_file` path is mandatory to ensure that the node initializes with the same genesis initial state and replay all the historical blocks. If the node is not able to replay the historical blocks, it will fork itself off the chain. 
```

> Conversely, if the node uses `statesync` to catch up with the network, the `snapshot_file` path is not required in the `config.toml` file. The node will use the `statesync` protocol to catch up with the network as described in the [State Sync](/docs/node/statesync) documentation.

Reviewer: brevity:

```suggestion
If the node uses `statesync` to catch up with the network, the `snapshot_file` path is not required in the `config.toml` file. The node will use the `statesync` protocol to catch up with the network as described in the [State Sync](/docs/node/statesync) documentation.
```

### Create Snapshot

Stop the network by shutting down all the nodes in the network. Then, use the `kwil-admin snapshot` tool to take a snapshot of the final state of the Kwild database. For more details, refer to the [create database snapshots](/docs/ref/kwil-admin/snapshot/create) documentation. This tool connects directly to the database to capture its state and does not require the `kwild` process to be running.

The `kwil-admin snapshot` tool generates a snapshot file and a genesis file required to start the new network. The genesis file includes the genesis app hash, derived from the hash of the uncompressed snapshot file, and the genesis validators set to the validators from the previous network. To start a new network with the snapshot data, the genesis file must have the `app_hash` field set; otherwise, the network will start with an empty state.

```bash
kwil-admin snapshot create --snapdir /path/to/snapdir

# Running the above command will generate the snapshot file and the genesis.json file in the snapshot directory.
ls /path/to/snapdir
genesis.json            kwildb-snapshot.sql.gz
```

> By default, the above command connects to the postgres instance runnning at `localhost:5432` with the default user `postgres` with `trust` authentication mode. To connect to a database running on a different host, port, use the following command:

Reviewer: Small typo:

```suggestion
By default, the above command connects to the postgres instance runnning at `localhost:5432` with the default user `postgres` with `trust` authentication mode. To connect to a database running on a different host/port/user/password, use the following command:
```

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: "Network Migrations"
id: network-migrations
title: Network Migrations (Hard forks)
description: Network Migrations
slug: /node/network-migrations
---
This document provides a detailed guide on how to establish a new network that integrates existing data from a previous network, using nodes that run on the updated version of the `kwild` binaries. This approach is necessary when seamless upgrades to new versions are not feasible due to significant, breaking changes that affect consensus mechanisms and transaction replays.

## Network Migrations

> Follow the steps below to upgrade the network to a new version of the `kwil` binaries:

Reviewer 2: should be `kwild`, not `kwil`

### Create Snapshot

> Stop the network by shutting down all the nodes in the network. Then, use the `kwil-admin snapshot` tool to take a snapshot of the final state of the Kwild database. For more details, refer to the [create database snapshots](/docs//ref/kwil-admin/snapshot/create) documentation. This tool connects directly to the database to capture its state and does not require the `kwild` process to be running.

Reviewer 2: Do they have to stop nodes? I don't think they have to stop all of them, but do they need to stop the one they are snapshotting?

Author: Yeah, we are doing a network migration here. I asked Jon to have a feature in Consensus Upgrades which will stop the network from mining blocks, that way, we can do coordinated stops and can get the snapshot of the latest state. and start a new network without losing any more transactions

Reviewer 2: I see. I think there might be a better way for us to handle this that can allow for them to have less downtime. Will share in a bit, but the tldr; is using oracles to listen to the old network.

Reviewer 3: I'm curious about the proposed solution.  If I were coordinating the death and rebirth of a network, I would expect to have all validators in on it.  Therefore, the last validator to hit CTRL+C gets to make the genesis data file.  Regardless, a pre-programmed halting height is a minor improvement that I'd support.

However, I still don't like we have to support this kind of migration.  So, I hope that whatever oracle solution we devise isn't complex, otherwise we might as well just not brick networks with incompatible upgrades in the first place.  The need to keep the old network running and accessible by clients is undesirable complexity.

Is there precedent for launching a new network that is linked to the old one, but with new rules, where the intent is to migrate all use to the new one?

### Distribute Genesis State

Distribute the `snapshot` and the `genesis.json` files required to start the new network. 

Ensure that the `genesis.json` file has the `app_hash` field set to the hash of the uncompressed snapshot file. Refer to the [Verify App Hash](#verify-app-hash) section to correctly generate this hash. The genesis file is already set to reflect the genesis validators set to the previous network's validators set around the time of the snapshot.  If changes are needed for the genesis validators set or other configurations, update the genesis file manually as required before distributing it.

### Run Genesis Nodes

#### Install Kwild Binaries

Firstly, install the new version of the `kwild` binaries. Refer to the [Installation](/docs//ref/installation) documentation for more details on getting the required versions of the `kwild` binaries.

#### Download Genesis State

Download the `snapshot` and the `genesis.json` files required for this new network. 

#### Configure Node to Use Snapshot

Refer to the [Node Configuration](/docs//ref/configuration) documentation to configure the `config.toml` file.

> To initialize the node with the snapshot data, the `snapshot_file` path in the `config.toml` file must be set to the location of the downloaded snapshot file.  The node will fail to start, if the `snapshot_file` path is not provided in the `config.toml`.

Reviewer 2: your Node Config path seems to have an extra forward slash in there. Also, could you just show how to do this with flags instead?

#### Start the Node

Once the genesis and config files are configured to use snapshots as described in the previous section, start the node using the following command:

```bash
# use -h for more options. 
kwild -r /path/to/node/root/dir
```

### Nodes Catching Up

Follow the same steps described in the [Run Genesis Nodes](#run-genesis-nodes) section to configure and start the nodes joining the upgraded network.

> The only distinction is if the node uses `statesync`. If node uses `statesync` to catch up with the network, the `snapshot_file` path is not required in the `config.toml` file. As the node is initialized using the statesync snapshots received from the network.

Reviewer 2: "As the node is initialized using the statesync snapshots received from the network" is not a complete sentence.

> On the other hand, if the node uses `block sync`, the `snapshot_file` path is mandatory as the node should start with the same initial state to replay the historical blocks of the chain without forking itself off the chain. 

Reviewer 2: "On the other hand" feels too informal for documentation. Also, `block sync` should probably have an underscore.
